现实可以有多美好？

作者: 符宇腾  赞同: 19

在 Quora 看到的很温暖的故事，转来，后面有我的翻译。

Answer to What was the most emotional moment of your life?
From Anonymous

About four years ago, on a summer evening, I was doing some laps at the pool at my apartment complex. I was taking a short 5 min break, when I noticed a 3-3 1/2 year old girl standing on the other side of the pool fence holding onto the railing and looking at me intently. Her mother was standing nearby but talking to someone else facing the other side.

She looked like an enthusiastic and cute little kid, so I said "hello how are you ?". She replied "Good".

Sometimes when I'm in the pool, I go under water and try to hold my breath for may be 20 secs and come up. I did that once and came back up and she was still looking at me, smiling. I asked her "Whats your name?". She said "Shreya. What is your name?".  I replied "I'm Sam". I went under water again and came back up and she was laughing loudly.  I looked at her and she told me "You are so funny Sam".  And then it clicked to me, me going in and out of the water made her think, I was entertaining her. Anyway, I did a couple more of those just to amuse her and then her mother was done with her chit-chat and they started walking towards their apartment which happened to be one of the units facing the pool. I just waved her good-bye.

Over the next 2-3 months, I was going to the pool at least 3-4 days a week. Occasionally, I'd see her playing in the patio of her house or getting ready to go to the park nearby with her mom. If she was on her way (with her mom), to the park or something, she'd tell her mom, "Mommy wait. I'll talk to Sam and then come" and then standing on the other side of the pool fence, she d say things like "Sam, I had this cake today. Im going to the park with mom now. I'll talk to you later" and be on her way.  Sometimes she d scream from her patio.

The usual conversations were something like this

Her: "Sam. Daddy got me a purple laptop".
Me: "Hey thats cool. I'm going to get a pink laptop for myself"

or

Her: "Im going to dance classes from tomorrow"
Me : "Wow. can you teach me to dance? I'll teach you swimming"
Her: " But I know swimming"

things like that.  All this while, I had never been physically near her. The closest chat we have had would have been at a distance of 15 feet, mostly because I was in the pool.

One day, after finishing my laps, I took a shower and wanted to check the mailbox before going home. The little girl and her mom came to the mailbox area from the park at the exact same time. She was looking somewhere else and talking some random stuff to her mom. Her mom saw me, smiled at me and said to her daughter,"Look, who is here!!".  The little girl was literally shocked to see me so close (may be 5ft), she froze with her mouth open for a couple seconds. And then she came running towards me and tightly hugged my right leg. She was so small, her head was at my knee. I gently patted her on the back and rubbed her hair.

And then she looked up at me(stilling hugging my legs) and said

 "Sam, I like you very much" .

The most innocent and sincere "I like you" I have ever heard. It was overwhelming. I didn't show it out, but it was a deeply emotional moment for me.

我试着翻译一下吧：

大概是四年前的一个夏夜，我在复式公寓旁的泳池游泳。在五分钟的休息时间里，我注意到了一个三岁多的小姑娘，她站在泳池栅栏的另一边，扶着栏杆专心地看着我。她妈妈就站在旁边，背对着她，在和别人讲话。

她看起来是个充满热情的、可爱的小孩，于是我说：“你好呀~今天过得怎么样呢？”她回答：“很棒啊~”

在泳池里，我偶尔会潜入水中憋气约20秒，然后浮出水面。有一次我从水里钻出来之后，她还在看着我，微笑挂在脸上。我问她：“你叫什么名字呀？”她说：“Shreya。你呢？”我回答：“我叫Sam。”我又沉入水中再钻出来，她看着我笑了，笑得很大声。我看着她，她说“你可真有意思，Sam。”我忽然明白过来，我在水里钻进钻出，让她觉得我是在逗她开心呢。不管怎样，为了逗她玩，我又这样做了好几次。后来她妈妈聊完了天，他们俩朝着自家的公寓走了， 巧的是，那座公寓就在泳池对面。我对她挥了挥手，算作告别。

接下来的两三个月，我每周都有三四天去游泳。有时候，我会看到她在她家的露台玩，或是就要出发和她妈妈一起去附近的公园。如果她在去公园或其他什么地方的路上（和她妈妈一起），她会对她妈妈请求“麻麻等一下~我去跟Sam说句话就回来~”然后就过来站在栅栏边，对我说一些这样的话：“Sam，我今天吃了蛋糕哦~现在要和妈妈一起去公园啦~等会再跟你聊哦~”然后她就走了。有时候她会在露台大声喊给我这些话。

通常呢，我们之间的对话是这样的：

她：“Sam，粑粑给我买了一台紫色的电脑~”
我：“哇，那很棒啊！我也要给自己买一台。”

或者

她：“明天开始我要去学跳舞啦~”
我：“哇！你能教我跳舞嘛？我教你游泳好啦。”
她：“可是我本来就会游啊~”

之类的。那段时间，我并没有和她走得很近。最接近的一次聊天也隔着15英尺远，因为我在游泳池里。

有一天我游完泳，冲了个澡，回家前想去看一下信箱。小姑娘和她妈妈正好也在那时候从公园走到信箱附近。那时她看着另一边，不知道在和妈妈说着什么。她妈妈看到了我，微笑了一下，对女儿说“你看谁在这里呀！”小姑娘当时震惊了，因为是第一次这么近距离地看着我（大概5英尺吧）。好几秒钟里她都一直张着嘴，像是被冻住了。然后她就朝我跑了过来，紧紧地抱住我的右腿。她太小了，只够到我的膝盖。我轻轻地拍拍她的背，揉揉她的头发。

然后，她抬起头看着我（这时还抱着我的腿呢）说：

“Sam，我好喜欢你> <”

那是我听过的最纯真、最真诚的“我喜欢你”。这种幸福感来势汹涌。当时我没有表现出来，但那确实是我最感动的一刻。



原链接: http://www.zhihu.com/question/24269892/answer/27434456